Inferential knowledge and logical dependence Two kinds of knowledge: direct and indirect
Some knowledge is direct; some is indirect.
Indirect knowledge is knowledge that is acquired through inference.
To make an inference is to form a new belief on the basis of an old one.
Inferences, when legitimate, are made in accordance with legitimate rules of inference. Rules of inference, when legitimate, correspond to dependence-relations.

Two kinds of dependence-relations: causal and logical

There are two kinds of dependence-relations: logical and causal.
  Logical dependence-relations hold among propositions. A proposition is a truth or a falsehood.
  Example of a logical dependence-relation: The proposition that x is a triangle cannot be true unless the proposition that x has three sides is true. Therefore, x s being a triangle depends on x s having three sides.
  Causal relations hold among states of affairs, not truths and falsehoods. (A state of affairs is anything that is in space-time.)
Example of a causal dependence-relation: Smith cannot pass the class unless Smith studies.
Therefore, Smith s passing depends on his studying.
The first-dependence relation is interpropositional, i.e. it holds between propositions.
  The second is objectual, i.e. it holds between occupants of the space-time manifold and therefore between  objects,  relative to some delineation of that term.

Propositions the objects of belief
   The objects of knowledge are propositions. It isn't known unless it's believed and it isn't believed unless it's a proposition.
   One can be aware of non-propositions, e.g. rocks, trees, people, but one does not in the relevant sense know them. Rather, one knows truths about them.

Relations of logical dependence not known through observation
   Some dependence-relations are known, not through sensory observation, but through conceptual analysis. Such truths are analytic, as opposed to empirical. Examples of analytic truths are:

1. If P, then either P or Q.

2. There are infinitely many primes.

3. Nothing can be numerate or literate without being sentient.

4. There are no laws where there is no government.

5. There is no recursive definition of the class of Dedekind-cuts.

6. 1+1=2.

7. 1+1?3.


  1 obviously expresses a dependence-relation, and 2-7 non-obviously do so, as their meanings are:


  2*. A set s having finitely many members depends on its not having the set of prime numbers as a subset.

3*. An entity s being literate or numerate depends on its being sentient. 4*. The presence of law depends on the presence of government.
  5*. A set s having either finitely many or denumerably many members depends on its not having a cardinality equal to or greater than the cardinality of the class of Dedekind cuts.

6*. A set s being a couple depends on its being the union of two non-overlapping unit sets. 7*. A set s being a triple depends on its not being the union of two non-overlapping unit sets.

Analytic truth and analytic knowledge

Analytic knowledge is always knowledge of dependence-relations.
Empirical knowledge can be either direct or indirect; the same is true of analytic knowledge.
[1]

Knowledge vs. awareness
   Knowledge is conceptually articulated awareness. In order for me to know that my shoes are uncomfortably tight, I need to have the concepts shoe, tight, discomfort, etc. I do not need to have these concepts---or, arguably, any concepts---to be aware of the uncomfortable tightness in my shoes. My knowledge of that truth is a conceptualization of my awareness of that state of affairs.
  Equivalently, there are two kinds of awareness: propositional and objectual. My visual perception of the dog in front of me is a case of objectual awareness, as is my awareness of the tightness of my shoes. My knowledge that there is a dog in front of me is a case of proposition- awareness, as is my knowledge that my shoes are uncomfortably tight.

Truths, not objects, the objects of explanation
   Observations are objectual awarenesses. The contents of such awarenesses must be converted into propositions if they are to be explained. This is because it is truths that are explained, and truths are true propositions.
  "But don't we explain events?" it will be objected. "Don't we explain bolts of lightning and avalanches?"
To explain some avalanche or lightning-bolt x is to explain why it is a truth that x occurred.
One is aware of lightning-bolts and avalanches. One explains the corresponding truths.

Causal relations known through observation
   Causal relations can be known only through one s senses (through sight, touch, etc.) and through real-time awareness of one s own psychological processes. In other words, causal relations can only be known empirically; and knowledge of them is therefore empirical.
